# Kubernetes

In Kubernetes, there are two primary types of nodes: the master node and the worker node. Each type performs specific roles within the cluster, managing different aspects of the containerized applications deployed on the Kubernetes platform.
Below diagrams representing the components of a Kubernetes master node and a worker node:

### Kubernetes Master Node:

```
   +---------------------+
   |    Kubernetes       |
   |     Master Node     |
   |                     |
   +---------------------+
   |                     |
   |    API Server       |
   |                     |
   +----------+----------+
              |
              |
              |
              v
   +----------+----------+
   |                     |
   |       etcd          |
   |   (Cluster Store)   |
   |                     |
   +----------+----------+
              |
              |
              |
              v
   +----------+----------+
   |                     |
   | Controller Manager  |
   |                     |
   +----------+----------+
              |
              |
              |
              v
   +----------+----------+
   |                     |
   |     Scheduler       |
   |                     |
   +---------------------+
```

- **API Server:** Acts as the interface for managing the cluster.
- **etcd:** Stores cluster state and configuration data.
- **Controller Manager:** Monitors and manages various controllers.
- **Scheduler:** Assigns workloads to worker nodes.

### Kubernetes Worker Node:

```
   +---------------------+
   |    Kubernetes       |
   |     Worker Node     |
   |                     |
   +---------------------+
   |                     |
   |       Kubelet       |
   |                     |
   +----------+----------+
              |
              |
              |
              v
   +----------+----------+
   |                     |
   |  Container Runtime  |
   |   (e.g., Docker)    |
   |                     |
   +----------+----------+
              |
              |
              |
              v
   +----------+----------+
   |                     |
   |     Kube Proxy      |
   |                     |
   +---------------------+
```

- **Kubelet:** Manages pods and communicates with the Kubernetes master.
- **Container Runtime:** Executes containers within pods.
- **Kube Proxy:** Manages networking for pods and services.

Please note that these ASCII diagrams provide a simplified representation of the components on a Kubernetes master node and a worker node. In a real Kubernetes cluster, there might be additional components and complexities involved, such as multiple instances of components for high availability and redundancy.
### Kubernetes Master Node:

1. **API Server**: It serves as the entry point for all administrative tasks and communication within the cluster. Users, the command-line interface (CLI), and other Kubernetes components interact with the API server to create, modify, and delete resources in the cluster.

2. **Controller Manager**: This component runs controller processes that regulate the state of the cluster. Controllers manage nodes, pods, deployments, and other resources, ensuring that the desired state matches the current state.

3. **Scheduler**: The scheduler is responsible for assigning workloads (containers/pods) to the appropriate nodes based on resource availability, constraints, policies, and optimization algorithms. It determines where each pod should run within the cluster.

4. **etcd**: It is a distributed key-value store that stores the cluster's configuration data, state, and metadata. The etcd database ensures consistency and provides a reliable source of truth for the entire cluster.

### Kubernetes Worker Node:

1. **Kubelet**: The kubelet is an agent that runs on each worker node and is responsible for managing the node's containers, ensuring they run in the desired state. It communicates with the master node's API server to receive instructions about pod deployment and health checks.

2. **Kube-proxy**: This component maintains network rules (iptables or other mechanisms) on each worker node. It performs network routing and load balancing, enabling communication between different pods and services across the cluster.

3. **Container Runtime**: Kubernetes supports various container runtimes like Docker, containerd, CRI-O, etc. The container runtime (e.g., Docker) is responsible for pulling container images, creating and managing containers based on the specifications provided by the kubelet.

### Node Processes:

#### Master Node Processes:
- **kube-apiserver**: The API server that exposes the Kubernetes API.
- **kube-controller-manager**: Manages various controllers that regulate the state of the cluster.
- **kube-scheduler**: Assigns pods to nodes based on resource requirements and other constraints.
- **etcd**: The distributed key-value store that stores cluster data.

#### Worker Node Processes:
- **kubelet**: Interacts with the API server and ensures containers are running on the node as expected.
- **kube-proxy**: Maintains network rules and enables communication between pods.
- **Container Runtime**: Manages containers based on pod specifications.

In summary, the master node manages the cluster's control plane and overall state, while worker nodes host the actual workloads (containers/pods) and execute the tasks assigned by the master node. Together, they form a distributed system that efficiently manages and orchestrates containerized applications across the Kubernetes cluster.

## Kubernetes resources:

1. **Deployment**:
   - A Deployment in Kubernetes is a resource that allows you to define, create, and manage a set of identical pods. It provides features such as rolling updates, scaling, and rollback.

   Sample YAML for a basic Deployment:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: example-deployment
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: example
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: example
       spec:
         containers:
         - name: nginx
           image: nginx:latest
   ```

2. **Service**:
   - A Service in Kubernetes is an abstraction that defines a logical set of pods and a policy by which to access them. It enables network access to a set of pods.

   Sample YAML for a basic Service (LoadBalancer type):

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: example-service
   spec:
     selector:
       app: example
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 80
     type: LoadBalancer
   ```

3. **ConfigMap**:
   - A ConfigMap in Kubernetes is a way to store configuration data separate from application code. It allows you to decouple configuration from your pods.

   Sample YAML for a basic ConfigMap:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: ConfigMap
   metadata:
     name: example-config
   data:
     key1: value1
     key2: value2
   ```

4. **Secrets**:
   - A Secret in Kubernetes is an object that allows you to store sensitive information, such as passwords, OAuth tokens, and ssh keys. They are stored in a base64 encoded format.

   Sample YAML for a basic Secret:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: example-secret
   type: Opaque
   data:
     username: dXNlcm5hbWU=
     password: cGFzc3dvcmQ=
   ```

# SAMPLE


```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: mongodb-configmap
data:
  db_host: mongodb-service
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: mongodb-secret
type: Opaque
data:
  username: dXNlcm5hbWU=
  password: cGFzc3dvcmQ=
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: mongodb
  labels:
    app: mongodb
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongodb
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: mongodb
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: mongodb
        image: mongo
        ports:
        - containerPort: 27017
        env:
        - name: MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: mongodb-secret
              key: username
        - name: MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: mongodb-secret
              key: password
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: mongodb-service
spec:
  selector:
    app: mongodb
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 27017
      targetPort: 27017
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: mongo-express
  labels:
    app: mongo-express
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongo-express
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: mongo-express
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: mongo-express
        image: mongo-express
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8081
        env:
        - name: ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: mongodb-secret
              key: username
        - name: ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: mongodb-secret
              key: password
        - name: ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER 
          valueFrom: 
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: mongodb-configmap
              key: db_host
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: mongo-express-service
spec:
  selector:
    app: mongo-express
  type: LoadBalancer  
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8081
      targetPort: 8081
      nodePort: 30000
```


These YAML configuration are Kubernetes manifest file that defines various resources for deploying a MongoDB database and a web-based MongoDB management tool called "mongo-express." Let's break down the different sections and resources defined in this configuration:

1. **ConfigMap (mongodb-configmap)**:
   - `apiVersion: v1`: Specifies the Kubernetes API version for this resource.
   - `kind: ConfigMap`: Defines a ConfigMap resource, which is used to store configuration data.
   - `metadata`: Metadata for the ConfigMap, including its name.
   - `data`: This section contains key-value pairs of configuration data. In this case, it defines a key `db_host` with the value `mongodb-service`. This configuration data can be used by other components in the Kubernetes cluster.

2. **Secret (mongodb-secret)**:
   - `apiVersion: v1`: Specifies the Kubernetes API version for this resource.
   - `kind: Secret`: Defines a Secret resource, which is used to store sensitive data, typically in base64-encoded form.
   - `metadata`: Metadata for the Secret, including its name.
   - `type: Opaque`: Specifies that this Secret is a generic, opaque secret (not specific to TLS certificates).
   - `data`: This section contains key-value pairs of sensitive data. It includes a username and password, both base64-encoded. These credentials are likely used for authenticating to the MongoDB database.

3. **Deployment (mongodb)**:
   - `apiVersion: apps/v1`: Specifies the Kubernetes API version for this resource.
   - `kind: Deployment`: Defines a Deployment resource, which manages the desired state of a set of pods.
   - `metadata`: Metadata for the Deployment, including its name and labels.
   - `spec`: Defines the desired state and configuration of the Deployment. It specifies that one replica of the MongoDB pod should be running.
   - `containers`: Specifies the containers running in the pod. In this case, there is a container named "mongodb" based on the "mongo" image. It also sets environment variables for the MongoDB root username and password using values from the "mongodb-secret."

4. **Service (mongodb-service)**:
   - `apiVersion: v1`: Specifies the Kubernetes API version for this resource.
   - `kind: Service`: Defines a Service resource, which provides network access to pods.
   - `metadata`: Metadata for the Service, including its name.
   - `spec`: Defines the selector to match pods (based on labels) and the port mapping. This service exposes port 27017 and is likely used to access the MongoDB database.

5. **Deployment (mongo-express)**:
   - Similar to the "mongodb" Deployment, this defines a Deployment for "mongo-express," a web-based MongoDB management tool.
   - It specifies one replica of the "mongo-express" pod, sets environment variables for the MongoDB admin username and password (using values from "mongodb-secret"), and specifies the "mongo-express" image.

6. **Service (mongo-express-service)**:
   - Defines a Service resource for "mongo-express" with a LoadBalancer type, meaning it can be accessed externally.
   - It exposes port 8081, which is likely the port used for accessing the "mongo-express" web interface. The `nodePort` is set to 30000, indicating that it will be exposed on this port on the cluster nodes.

In summary, this YAML configuration sets up a Kubernetes cluster with a MongoDB database and a web-based MongoDB management tool (mongo-express). It uses ConfigMaps and Secrets to manage configuration and sensitive data and defines Services to allow external access to the MongoDB and mongo-express components.

## Different types of Kubernetes services:

1. **ClusterIP**:
   - **Description**: ClusterIP is the default type of service. It exposes the service on an internal IP within the cluster. This means that the service is only reachable from within the cluster and is not accessible from outside the cluster.
   - **Use Cases**: ClusterIP is often used for services that need to communicate with other services within the cluster, but do not need to be accessed from outside the cluster. For example, a database service that other services in the cluster need to connect to.

2. **NodePort**:
   - **Description**: NodePort exposes the service on a specific port on each node in the cluster. This means that the service is accessible via `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>`. Kubernetes automatically routes traffic that is sent to this port to one of the service's pods.
   - **Use Cases**: NodePort is useful when you need to expose a service to the outside world. It's typically used in development or testing environments. It's not generally used in production as it exposes the service on all nodes, which might not be desirable.

3. **LoadBalancer**:
   - **Description**: LoadBalancer provides external access to the service by setting up a load balancer that distributes traffic across all the pods in the service. The external load balancer is provisioned by the cloud provider (like AWS, GCP, Azure) and it assigns a public IP address to the service.
   - **Use Cases**: LoadBalancer is used when you want to expose a service to the internet. This is typically used in production environments where you want to ensure high availability and distribute incoming traffic across multiple pods.

